# X11workbenchProject

The X11 Work Bench, an IDE for working on X11 applications, with a simple C
language toolkit that should be familiar and easy to use for old school GUI
programmers

This application is in a pre-alpha state, which basically means that it's
non-functional, but has a lot of interesting features.  For example, the
toolkit's basic functionality (minus some details) is working.  The sample
'Hello World' application should compile and run.  And the library itself
will build properly.

However, it does not (yet) function as in the project description.  Not yet,
anyway.

(update 5/31/2026 - a year after the last update, yeah...)

In order to teach myself how to properly use AI in developing a project, I have
taken on the task of using GROK to assist me in completing this long-protracted
project.  I am assigning myself specific tasks to use Grok for so I can understand
how to most efficiently use Grok's capabilities while maintaining a "supervisory"
role on what it generates, making changes as needed to improve it.

Over the next week or so (likely) I plan on making MAJOR updates so I can find the
best way to use Grok as a "team of junior developers".  Flat out "Vibe coding"
already shows signs of problems, from code bloat to outright mistakes and
misinterpretation of intent.

The most recent updates are for WIN32 compayibility code.  Once I've established
a proof of concept with windows i can docus on finishing the functionality and
implementing all of the dialog box controls, thus making this (finally) a useful
application and toolkit.  I expect 10:1 or better productivity boost once I
get the process right.

The future is AI; however, you must learn to MANAGE it, otherwise you end up
with a world filled with even CRAPPIER CODE than what "Teh Intarwebs" has brought
us, with overly-bloated projects, 2D FLATSO interfaces, JavaScript **HELL**, and
the 'Rust' programming lingo developed solely to compensate for a lot of it
(but NOT solve the basic problem).



(update 5/16/2025 - not abandoned, just on hold)

This project has traditionally been hosted at:

  http://sourceforge.net/projects/X11workbench

It is likely to remain there, but only as binary ZIP downloads.  The actual
source tree, issues, wiki, and online documentation will be here on github.

(more to come)

For licensing information, see LICENSE and COPYING.

For build information, see BUILD.


For API documentation (generated by doxygen)

  http://bombasticbob.github.io/X11workbench/



                     MOTIVATION AND PHILOSOPHY
                     -------------------------

'DLL Hell' is starting to creep into the non-windows world of Linux
and BSD.  Additionally, the edit controls offered by Qt and GTK just
don't do the kinds of things that PROGRAMMERS need.  And though these
toolkits are cross-platform (being open source), getting a cross-platform
version of them working on a NEW platform is extremely difficult.

Also there appears to be a general LACK of really good open source
integrated development packages for the C and C++ languages.  If you
want developers to write code for Linux or BSD for X11, you need to
provide them with tools that enable them to easily do so, or the cost
for porting existing applications will be too high.

Without mentioning names, certain open source packages restrict you
to specific toolkits, don't have decent C or C++ support, or really
stink when it comes to creating a simple dialog box.  Other commercial
tools also stink when it comes to their over-complexity and lack of
editor features that I personally find extremely important.  If I am
going to pay for something I want it to be usable by ME.

It also needs to be VERY simple to distribute X11 applications.  The
current GUI toolkits, with their EXCESSIVELY LONG LISTS of shared library
pre-requisites and run requirements, make it "that much more difficult"
for the developer that wants his C or C++ application to run on a
non-Windows platform.  And you can't simply assume that all of those
packages will already be installed, either.

By using X11 client libraries as the ONLY required subsystem necessary
to run the application, you avoid the need of adapting a large amount
of 3rd party code to your environment, MOST of which won't even be used
by your application!  After all, I wouldn't need all of the gtk multimedia
and font support just to write THIS application.

The difficulty arises when you look at just how 'low level' X11 really is.
All of the things you take for granted in developing an application for
a GUI remind you of why toolkits like Qt and gtk exist.

X11workbench has its own built-in lightweight toolkit that's designed
specifically for X11workbench.  You are, of course, free to use it in
your own code.  Since it was designed specifically for X11workbench,
it's as lean and mean as it can be.  The down side, of course, is the
amount of time it took for me to develop it.

To make X11workbench as expandable and compatible as possible, the
interface it uses for 'plug-in' extensions is as broadly compatible
as possible.

Accessibility features are limited to font selection and keyboard
hot-keys.  Great care has been taken to support keyboard-based
shortcuts for every menu option, so operation WITHOUT a mouse is
not only possible, it may even be better.


